# Installing Flowspy v1.7 with Docker

Flowspy users may wish to test Flowspy in a container rather than directly onto a server or virtual host; this document shows how to build and deploy Flowspy in a Docker container.

Flowspy installs into `/srv/flowspy` by default; if you wish to use a different directory then you will need to update several configuration files. It is also assumed that the `root` user will perform every action.

# Requirements

Docker must be installed on your target OS; the installation of Docker is outside the scope of this document.

Docker images require disk space on the host OS; approximately 2 GB for Flowspy and approximately 200 MB for CentOS 7 which is the default OS used.

Although the default `Dockerfile` is for CentOS, several Dockerfiles for both CentOS and Debian can be found in the `Dockerfiles.d` directory. These are meant **for testing only** and are _not_ production-ready.

The containers run `gunicorn`, `celeryd` and Redis - and use a SQLite database (`/srv/flowspy/example-data`) to hold resources. They also make a web server available on port 8000.

# Building the Flowspy container

First build your Flowspy container. The default (`Dockerfile`) is a container which uses CentOS 7 and `systemd`, but there are other options; one uses `supervisord` and the other is a 2-step build which may suit developers by allowing for faster rebuilds when code changes.

> Although the examples below use CentOS, just replace `Dockerfile.centos` with `Dockerfile.debian` if you wish to use Debian instead.

## CentOS with `systemd`

```
docker build -f Dockerfile -t fod-centos .
```

## CentOS with `supervisord`

```
docker build -f ./Dockerfiles.d/Dockerfile.centos.supervisord -t fod-centos .
```

## CentOS with 2-step build

For `systemd`;
``` 
docker build -f ./Dockerfiles.d/Dockerfile.centos.base -t fodpy3_centos_base .
docker build -f ./Dockerfiles.d/Dockerfile.centos.step2 -t fod-centos .
```

For `supervisord`;
```
docker build -f ./Dockerfiles.d/Dockerfile.centos.supervisord.base -t fodpy3_centos_svzd_base .
docker build -f ./Dockerfiles.d/Dockerfile.centos.supervisord.step2 -t fod-centos
```

# Running Flowspy

You should now be able to see relevant images for Flowspy in your Docker environment;

```
[user@host-os ~]$ docker images
REPOSITORY          TAG                 IMAGE ID            CREATED             SIZE
fod-centos          latest              42da1eb2b4a5        3 minutes ago       1.73 GB
```

Although the web server listens on port 8000 by default you can map this to a different port on the Docker command line. Our examples map port 8000 on the docker container to port 80 on the host OS.

```
docker run -p 80:8000 fod-centos # run in foreground
or
docker run -d -p 80:8000 fod-centos # run in background
```

If you are using the Debian container then replace `fod-centos` with `fod-debian`.

You can confirm that the docker container is running with `docker ps` - this will also give you the autogenerated name of the container and show you port mappings if any;

```
[user@host-os Dockerfiles.d]$ docker ps
CONTAINER ID        IMAGE               COMMAND                    CREATED             STATUS              PORTS                  NAMES
5b125f76470d        fod-centos          "/srv/flowspy/runfod.sh"   1 month ago         Up 2 days           0.0.0.0:80->8000/tcp   lucid_mcnulty
```

You can connect the container directly and start a shell using either the `CONTAINER ID` or the `NAME` and the `docker exec -it` command;

```
[user@host-os Dockerfiles.d]$ docker exec -ti lucid_mcnulty bash
[root@5b125f76470d /]#
```

# Initial setup of Flowspy

You need to set a couple of options once the container is running; the password for the `admin` user and the details of the NETCONF-enabled router which Flowspy will use to inject FLOWSPEC routes.

- NETCONF_DEVICE
- NETCONF_PORT
- NETCONF_USER
- NETCONF_PASS

## via Web GUI

Access the Flowspy web server at `http://127.0.0.1:8000/setup/` (if you are connecting from _inside_ the container) or `http://your.host-os.ipaddress/` if you are connecting from _outside_ the container (and have mapped port 8000 to port 80).

Once you hit "Save", the config will be saved **in the container** as `/srv/flowspy/flowspy/settings_local.py`.

You will need to restart the container for Flowspy to pick up this config; from the Host OS

```
docker restart lucid_mcnulty
```

You can now access the Flowspy web server using your new credentials.

## via manual configuration

> This needs to be done from **inside** the container.

The relevant file is `/srv/flowspy/flowspy/settings.py`; the relevant variables are

- NETCONF_DEVICE
- NETCONF_PORT
- NETCONF_USER
- NETCONF_PASS

You will then need to use the `manage.py` script to change the admin password;

```
cd /srv/flowspy; ./pythonenv ./manage.py changepassword admin
```

You will need to restart the container for Flowspy to pick up this config; from the Host OS

```
docker restart lucid_mcnulty
```

You can now access the Flowspy web server using your new credentials.

## Testing NETCONF connectivity

**Please** make sure that the docker container has IP connectivity to your NETCONF device!

If you wish to confirm this, then use `yum install telnet` to install telnet in your container and telnet to whichever port on which your NETCONF device is listening (`netconf-ssh`/830 by default);

```
[root@5b125f76470d flowspy]# telnet 192.0.2.1 netconf-ssh
Trying 192.0.2.1...
Connected to 192.0.2.1.
Escape character is '^]'.
SSH-2.0-OpenSSH_7.5
^]
telnet> close
Connection closed.
[root@5b125f76470d flowspy]#
```

# Misc

You may access the containerised Web GUI after the password of the admin user has been reset via `http://127.0.0.1:8000/altlogin`.

> Do not try to use the Shibboleth login via `/altlogin` as it will not work without a fully configured Shibboleth SP

# Persistent storage

The configuration will only last as long as the docker container itself; if the container is stopped or the host OS rebooted then the configuration will be lost.

You can use [Docker volumes](https://docs.docker.com/storage/volumes/) for persistent storage;

```
[user@host-os]$ docker volume create Flowspy-srv
Flowspy-srv
[user@host-os]$ docker volume inspect Flowspy-srv
[
    {
        "Driver": "local",
        "Labels": {},
        "Mountpoint": "/var/lib/docker/volumes/Flowspy-srv/_data",
        "Name": "Flowspy-srv",
        "Options": {},
        "Scope": "local"
    }
]
```

Then use the Docker CLI argument `-v` (**v**olume) to mount the container at runtime;

```
docker run -d -p 80:8000  -v Flowspy-srv:/srv fod-centos
```
